README.md, before:

# Image Resizer

A simple, fast Go-based image resizing utility that automatically resizes images while preserving their aspect ratios and directory structure. It's purposely opinionated for web devs building marketing sites, helping you go from overly-large high-res images to web-friendly sizes in no time.

## What It Does

This script processes all images in a directory (and its subdirectories) and creates a `Resized` folder containing:

- **Resized images** that exceed size limits (landscape > 2500px wide, portrait > 1500px tall)
- **Copied images** that are already within size limits
- **Preserved directory structure** - maintains the same folder hierarchy as the original

## Features

- **Automatic size detection** - Only resizes images that are too large
- **Aspect ratio preservation** - Maintains original proportions
- **Recursive processing** - Handles nested folders automatically
- **Incremental processing** - Skips files that have already been processed
- **Visual progress feedback** - Shows what's happening in real-time
- **High-quality resizing** - Uses Lanczos resampling for best results
- **Multiple format support** - Works with JPG, JPEG, PNG, and GIF files

## Size Limits

- **Landscape images**: Maximum width of 2500 pixels
- **Portrait images**: Maximum height of 1500 pixels
- **Square images**: Follows the larger dimension limit

## How to Use

### Method 1: Copy and Double-Click (Recommended)

1. [**Download the executable**](https://github.com/kaelansmith/img-resizer/blob/main/img-resizer.exe)

2. **Copy/move the executable** to your image folder

3. **Double-click** `img-resizer.exe`

   - A command window will open showing the progress
   - You'll see real-time updates as files are processed

4. **Wait for completion**

   - The script will show which files are being resized or copied
   - When done, press Enter to close the window

5. **Find your results** in the `Resized` folder

### Method 2: Command Line

1. **Open Command Prompt** in your image folder
2. **Run the executable**:
   ```
   img-resizer.exe
   ```

## Example Output

```
Opening sub-directory: Photos
  Resized: Photos/vacation.jpg
  Copied: Photos/small-image.png
  Opening sub-directory: Photos/2023
    Resized: Photos/2023/large-photo.jpg
  Opening sub-directory: Photos/2024
    Copied: Photos/2024/small-photo.jpg

📋 Skipped files summary:
   Photos: 5 files already exist

✅ Done! Resized images are in: C:\path\to\Resized

Press Enter to close...
```

## File Structure

**Before:**

```
My Photos/
├── vacation.jpg (4000x3000)
├── small-image.png (800x600)
├── 2023/
│   └── large-photo.jpg (3000x2000)
└── 2024/
    └── small-photo.jpg (1200x800)
```

**After:**

```
My Photos/
├── Resized/
│   ├── vacation.jpg (2500x1875) ← Resized
│   ├── small-image.png (800x600) ← Copied
│   ├── 2023/
│   │   └── large-photo.jpg (2500x1667) ← Resized
│   └── 2024/
│       └── small-photo.jpg (1200x800) ← Copied
├── vacation.jpg (original)
├── small-image.png (original)
└── ... (all original files unchanged)
```

## Supported Formats

- **JPG/JPEG** - Most common photo format
- **PNG** - Good for graphics and screenshots
- **GIF** - Animated and static images

## Smart Features

### Incremental Processing

- **First run**: Processes all images
- **Subsequent runs**: Only processes new or changed images
- **Skipped files**: Shows summary of files that already exist

### Directory Handling

- **Skips "Resized" folders** - Won't process its own output
- **Visual hierarchy** - Shows folder structure with indentation
- **Error handling** - Gracefully handles unreadable files

### Performance

- **Fast processing** - Optimized for large image collections
- **Memory efficient** - Processes one image at a time
- **Progress feedback** - Real-time updates on what's happening

## Requirements

- **Windows** - Built for Windows systems
- **No installation** - Just copy and run
- **No dependencies** - Self-contained executable

## Tips

1. **Backup first** - Always keep your original images safe
2. **Test on a small folder** - Try it on a few images first
3. **Check the output** - Verify the results look good
4. **Run multiple times** - Safe to run repeatedly on the same folder
5. **Large collections** - Works great with thousands of images

## Troubleshooting

### "Could not open" errors

- File might be corrupted or in an unsupported format
- Check file permissions
- Try opening the file in another program

### No output folder created

- Check if you have write permissions in the directory
- Ensure the script completed successfully

### Slow performance

- Large images take longer to process
- Many files will take more time
- This is normal - the script is thorough

## Technical Details

- **Language**: Go
- **Image library**: github.com/disintegration/imaging
- **Resampling**: Lanczos (high quality)
- **Output format**: Same as input format
- **Compression**: Maintains original quality settings

---

**Note**: This tool is designed to be simple and safe. It never modifies your original files and always creates a separate output folder.

Commit message:

add info about non-Windows platforms

README.md, after:

# Image Resizer

A simple, fast Go-based image resizing utility that automatically resizes images while preserving their aspect ratios and directory structure. It's purposely opinionated for web devs building marketing sites, helping you go from overly-large high-res images to web-friendly sizes in no time.

## What It Does

This script processes all images in a directory (and its subdirectories) and creates a `Resized` folder containing:

- **Resized images** that exceed size limits (landscape > 2500px wide, portrait > 1500px tall)
- **Copied images** that are already within size limits
- **Preserved directory structure** - maintains the same folder hierarchy as the original

## Features

- **Automatic size detection** - Only resizes images that are too large
- **Aspect ratio preservation** - Maintains original proportions
- **Recursive processing** - Handles nested folders automatically
- **Incremental processing** - Skips files that have already been processed
- **Visual progress feedback** - Shows what's happening in real-time
- **High-quality resizing** - Uses Lanczos resampling for best results
- **Multiple format support** - Works with JPG, JPEG, PNG, and GIF files

## Size Limits

- **Landscape images**: Maximum width of 2500 pixels
- **Portrait images**: Maximum height of 1500 pixels
- **Square images**: Follows the larger dimension limit

## How to Use

### Method 1: Copy and Double-Click (Recommended)

1. [**Download the executable**](https://github.com/kaelansmith/img-resizer/blob/main/img-resizer.exe)

2. **Copy/move the executable** to your image folder

3. **Double-click** `img-resizer.exe`

   - A command window will open showing the progress
   - You'll see real-time updates as files are processed

4. **Wait for completion**

   - The script will show which files are being resized or copied
   - When done, press Enter to close the window

5. **Find your results** in the `Resized` folder

### Method 2: Command Line

1. **Open Command Prompt** in your image folder
2. **Run the executable**:
   ```
   img-resizer.exe
   ```

## Example Output

```
Opening sub-directory: Photos
  Resized: Photos/vacation.jpg
  Copied: Photos/small-image.png
  Opening sub-directory: Photos/2023
    Resized: Photos/2023/large-photo.jpg
  Opening sub-directory: Photos/2024
    Copied: Photos/2024/small-photo.jpg

📋 Skipped files summary:
   Photos: 5 files already exist

✅ Done! Resized images are in: C:\path\to\Resized

Press Enter to close...
```

## File Structure

**Before:**

```
My Photos/
├── vacation.jpg (4000x3000)
├── small-image.png (800x600)
├── 2023/
│   └── large-photo.jpg (3000x2000)
└── 2024/
    └── small-photo.jpg (1200x800)
```

**After:**

```
My Photos/
├── Resized/
│   ├── vacation.jpg (2500x1875) ← Resized
│   ├── small-image.png (800x600) ← Copied
│   ├── 2023/
│   │   └── large-photo.jpg (2500x1667) ← Resized
│   └── 2024/
│       └── small-photo.jpg (1200x800) ← Copied
├── vacation.jpg (original)
├── small-image.png (original)
└── ... (all original files unchanged)
```

## Supported Formats

- **JPG/JPEG** - Most common photo format
- **PNG** - Good for graphics and screenshots
- **GIF** - Animated and static images

## Smart Features

### Incremental Processing

- **First run**: Processes all images
- **Subsequent runs**: Only processes new or changed images
- **Skipped files**: Shows summary of files that already exist

### Directory Handling

- **Skips "Resized" folders** - Won't process its own output
- **Visual hierarchy** - Shows folder structure with indentation
- **Error handling** - Gracefully handles unreadable files

### Performance

- **Fast processing** - Optimized for large image collections
- **Memory efficient** - Processes one image at a time
- **Progress feedback** - Real-time updates on what's happening

## Requirements

- **Windows** - This executable is built for Windows systems
- **Mac/Linux** - The source code can be compiled for other platforms (see Technical Details)
- **No installation** - Just copy and run
- **No dependencies** - Self-contained executable

## Tips

1. **Backup first** - Always keep your original images safe
2. **Test on a small folder** - Try it on a few images first
3. **Check the output** - Verify the results look good
4. **Run multiple times** - Safe to run repeatedly on the same folder
5. **Large collections** - Works great with thousands of images

## Troubleshooting

### "Could not open" errors

- File might be corrupted or in an unsupported format
- Check file permissions
- Try opening the file in another program

### No output folder created

- Check if you have write permissions in the directory
- Ensure the script completed successfully

### Slow performance

- Large images take longer to process
- Many files will take more time
- This is normal - the script is thorough

## Technical Details

- **Language**: Go (cross-platform)
- **Image library**: github.com/disintegration/imaging
- **Resampling**: Lanczos (high quality)
- **Output format**: Same as input format
- **Compression**: Maintains original quality settings

### Building for Other Platforms

If you need a version for Mac or Linux, you can build it from source:

```bash
# Install Go from https://golang.org/

# For Mac
GOOS=darwin GOARCH=amd64 go build -o img-resizer main.go

# For Linux
GOOS=linux GOARCH=amd64 go build -o img-resizer main.go

# For Windows
GOOS=windows GOARCH=amd64 go build -o img-resizer.exe main.go
```

---

**Note**: This tool is designed to be simple and safe. It never modifies your original files and always creates a separate output folder.
